// This came out to being around 2-2.5 pages.

Sabba’s Section

	My role in the employee scheduling system has been to work on the User Interface, after reading and studying upon various web programming languages not known to me beforehand. While this has been my task throughout the project, it’s gone through various transitions, especially between the original concept of the course scheduling system and the new concept of the employee management system. The former of these systems, I was getting acclimated to the scope of the project, given our foundational aspects of a scheduler, back-end/database system, and front-end. Once I understood the given tasks, I delved into my research online, finding various tutorials and reading books, to understand not just HTML/CSS, but also Javascript (specifically JQuery), and SQL. Also, I furthered my knowledge through the help of my teammates, as they also had some experience with web programming and design. My first design was inspired from a professional company online and much of the font types, color schemes, and placement of fields, were very similar. It looked very professional, credible, minimalist, and contemporary, each of which was exactly what I was after. After receiving approval from my teammates, we then began working on connecting the scheduler to the front-end design, and got that working. It was at this point that the first quarter had just ended and a bunch of milestones completed.
	During the winter break, I began to do further research on JQuery and SQL, as I had never used either before. I knew that we were going to need some special effects for our website, such as modal menus, radio button handling, etc. Also, we were going to need to tap into the database using Django and with knowledge of how SQL worked and the language itself, it made it easier for me to work with Django in handling commands by the user for the database. 
	After working on the course scheduler for a long period of time, we ultimately switched to the employee scheduling system and our user design changed. With the help of teammates, a new user design was built from ground up and radically changed the direction of the previous user design. The newer design is more modern and minimalist and from this new design, we’ve been able to perform the functions needed, such as creating a calendar, working with CSV values, and having authentication features, as well as all the features from the last design. This is the current state of our web design and as work becomes completed throughout the scheduler and the back-end, we will work dynamically to make sure it functions with the front-end.
	I have personally learned more from this project than in most of my university classes, as I have now seen first-hand what it is to work on a team to get things finished with a time frame. Going into this project, I had no idea how we were going to go about it and had zero knowledge on the languages that were used. Therefore, it was a challenge for me to undertand Python/Django/Web programming, especially given we were on a time crunch throughout. I learned what it was like to work under pressure of getting deliverables finished, as well as constantly keeping myself in the loop to learn what was coming next. I also thought the dynamic of our team was perfect, as we had two people who had been on teams in the past and were experienced, and three of us who were learning the process, and the former two really helped the rest of us learn the ropes and jump right in. It was certainly a challenge to stay up with the team, but it taught me to continuously know everything about the current state, as well as be curious as to the approach of the next step, something I can frankly apply to my life in general. It has been a great experience working with this team and I feel more prepared going into the post-university world, alongside my newer found skill set.
