We started out our project using the Unified Process to plan our project. The Unified Process breaks down into five phases: A requirements phase, an analysis phase, a design phase, an implementation phase and post-delivery maintenance. We completed a deliverable for each of the phases except for the post-delivery maintenance phase.
	Our first deliverable we wrote out scenarios for the use of our product. We included a scenario for each of the user roles that will be using our product. Our program administrator scenario described how the program administrator would initially set up the database in order to run the algorithm. The scenario for the program manager shows how the program manager will be able to inspect the courses that the administrator picked, and select the courses and lecturers for the upcoming quarter. The scenario for the lecturer shows how the lecturer will be able to specify their own individual constraints, such as the courses that they wish to teach, and the days and times that they are available. The scenario for the student shows how a student will select a course for their upcoming quarter. We also included a scenario in which the program administrator receives the master schedule from each individual program manager, and is then able to set up and run the algorithm.
		Our second deliverable listed an overview of our requirements phase. In this deliverable we provided a high-level view of our system and its functionality. It was broken into functionality, performance, usability, constraints, and our wish list. The functionality provides a description of what our system does, we included information on the algorithm, a breakdown of our database, the different sections of our user interface, and the specifications of our server.
			Our third deliverable was an overall summary of our project. We provided a high level architecture that showed the break down of our system into user interface, django, and the algorithm. We go into detail on how we plan to build our project and reasons for building it the way we did. We also included interaction diagrams, which take the information from the scenarios we selected and goes into much more detail with them. 
				Our fourth deliverable was a user manual for our project. This deliverable is primarily a tutorial for each user role showing how they will user our final product. It has a step-by-step process for setting up accounts and performing the necessary tasks for each role. Our user manual also includes a system overview; definitions and system requirements so that it is more clear for the user reading it.

